# CMake Tutorial
Here, I am following the tutorial by [John Lamp](https://johnlamp.net). 

## TBH
Well, in this tutorial I made a very lazy mistake... Because "it's just a tutorial" and "oh, I'm just copying pre-made scripts" I thought, I don't need to follow proper software engineering practices (cough cough, they're there for a reason). And so, I lazily did not commit any working versions. It seems that maybe the tutorial is slightly outdated but more likely, I messed up some small thing and now, the `make` command doesn't work because of my use of gtest. Interestingly enough, `make test` works but it claims that the gtest fails. So, I'm confused and since I'm taking a tutorial for CMake, it's a little hard for me to debug this. Will potentially come back and try to fix this tutorial but at the very least, it has some good notes and a shockingly good amount of software design (especially for testing!) so I'll keep the project and push the changes regardless.

## Introduction
CMake is not a build system! Rather, it generates a configuration for a build system (such as make). It allows for a more flexible software environment as it can generate the configuration to easily work on multiple build systems.

## Chapter 1: Getting Started
The code in this project is simple and minimal. It is only meant to provide source code we can actually build.

### Building the script
```bash
cd <path-to-project>
mkdir build
cd build
cmake -G "Unix Makefiles" ..
make
```
Note: CMake suggest having a specific build folder for various reasons. Amongst them, to clean the one's build, they can simply delete the folder.

In the terminal commands above `Unix Makefiles` is a specific "generator" for CMake. We'll review others in the next chapter. `make` actually builds the files using the configuration generated by the `cmake` call.
Further note that cmake suppresses much of the standard `make` output. One can see this output with the command `make VERBOSE=1` instead of a simple `make`.
The makefile created by CMake will automatically run cmake again if you modify your CMakeLists.txt!

We can run tests with the following commands:
```bash
cd <path-to-project>
mkdir build
cd build
cmake -G "Unix Makefiles" ..
make test
cat Testing/Temporary/LastTest.log
cat Testing/Temporary/CTestCostData.txt 
```
This will run our tests and the `cat <...> LastTest.log` statement prints a longer version of our output to the terminal while the `cat <...> CTestCostData.txt` prints the time it takes to run each test in seconds.

## Chapter 2: IDE Integration
This section reviews different IDE's and their respective make file generation. I personally use the lightweight VS Code IDE so this chapter doesn't really apply. However, I list it here in the event I ever want to come back and review this section.

## Chapter 3: GUI Tool
We start this section by using CMake commands in an if, elseif statement to turn on compiler warnings. Note, I needed to fix these errors in order to continue so they are removed from the script. But, for example warnings, enter the main script and follow the TODO's.

This section also discusses the GUI tool available for CMake. I likely won't use this tool either anytime soon so refer back to Chapter 2 statement.

## Chapter 4: Libraries and Subdirectories
In the chapters 1-3 setup, we have the `ToDo` files sitting in our project dir. This is less than ideal because make will compile each file as many times as the file is referenced. If we, however create a library from these files, CMake will understand that these files should only be compiled once.  
